## Relay-Linking Models for Prominence and Obsolescence in Evolving Networks
---

Link: http://www.kdd.org/kdd2017/papers/view/relay-linking-models-for-prominence-and-obsolescence-in-evolving-networks

## Overview
This paper proposes a family of aging models that capture temporal
properties of evolving networks using few global parameters. Main idea: old
nodes relay citations to "younger" nodes in its immediate vicinity. Graphs
generated by proposed model capture rich-get-richer as well as aging and decline.
papers' citation counts per year, which peaks within a few years and then
the typical paper fades into obscurity.

## Motivation
- well known O(1) parameter model too simple to capture temporal properties
(PA rich-get-richer, monotonic increase in citations over time.)
- Aging models that are extensions of preferential attachment don't accurately
capture metrics (e.g. exponential decay w. PA, global decay paramter)
- Fitness models assume that each model has an intrinsic aging-related parameter
O(|V|) parameters in the model.
- to add a citation in a new paper, choose an existing paper p0, but if it is too old,
walk back along a citation link to p1 and (option- ally) repeat the process.
We call this hypothesized process triad uncompletion and the model relay-linking.
- recent papers have a large fraction of outbound citation to papers in the recent
past, but older papers' citation rate decreases over time. Explained by accelerated
network growth.

## Metrics
- Temporal bucket signatures: stacked histogram of relative age of citations
- Age gap count histogram: histogram of difference in age of citing and cited
- Distance (L1 distnace) and Turnover (measures how sharply citations to paper in bucket i from year j to
    year j+1, average using geometric mean): functions of temporal buckets
- Obtain model using grid search over parameter value. Choose tuple that minimizes distance, turnover and age gap prod.

## Evidence
- evidence for relay- linking can only be circumstantial and in the aggregate, because the decision of p2
to select, but then not cite p0, is never recorded in any form
- define P_p and P_o: set of popular and obsure papers. Define R_w and R_l : set of papers citing majority popular
and only obscure papers respectively.
    - Do R_w gain citations faster than R_l? (hypothesis test)
    - Are R_w stealing from P_p? analyze citation change. Study fading papers in P_p and citation increase of
    papers in R_w that cite P_p

## Model
- At a given point in time, an old popular paper p0 begins to lose citations in favor of a relatively young paper p1 that cites p0.
    - p1 is a journal version of a conference paper p0
    - p1 refutes or improves upon p0, or
    - p1 reuses data or a procedure in p0, and so on.
- model parameters: R (number of relays), lambda (time to initiate), theta (extent of relaying), D (uniform or PA)
    - higher values of lambda leads to relaying of citation soon after its publication
    - higher values of theta lead to higher intensity of relaying
    - Random Relay Cite: select paper p0 with age T using D. With probability exp(-lambda*T), choose to relay.
      Otherwise, with probability theta, choose to relay by citing sample paper v in neighborhood. Otherwise,
      cite p0.
    - Extensions: D=PA, R=inf.








